So I still want to have a function which I can call to connect and therefore, this function still is
looking good to me in general.
One thing I want to do is I'll add a throw error here so that I also throw the error again when we fail here
but besides that, I'm happy with having mongo connect here but I'll change something, I'll not
return the client in my callback here
instead I'll add a variable, _db, the underscore is only here to signal that this will only
be used internally in this file
but you don't have to name it like this,
you could also have normally, just like db
and initially this will be undefined.
Now here in the then block, I will store a value in there,
I will store access to the database here and if I leave it like this, what we will do is we will connect
to the test database by default because that is what we specify here in our connection string. So I will
connect to shop here and then this will give us access to the shop database to which we automatically
connect and you could also enter the database name here
to overwrite this and connect to a different database than you were connected to initially but I'll not
enter anything and just connect to that database. As a side note,
unlike in SQL we never need to create that database or the tables, the collections in there ahead
of time. It will be created on the fly when we first access it which is again fitting that flexibility
theme mongodb gives us. In SQL we had to prepare everything in advance, at least when not using
sequelize which also had to do that but it did it for us, here
we don't need to do anything, we're just telling mongodb hey connect me to the shop database
and if that database doesn't exist yet, mongodb will create it as soon as we start writing
data to it.
So that's just a little side note, here
I do store a connection to my database in the db variable. And with that stored, now in my callback
I don't need to return it but I will add another function here, I'll name that get db and here I
will simply check if db is set, so if it's not undefined and in this case I'll return db, so I will
return access to my database
otherwise I'll essentially not do anything here,
so I'll return undefined,
we could also throw an error,
no database
found, something like this.
Now here, I also want to export that so I'll not just export Mongo connect but instead, I'll just use a
different syntax you learned about, exports mongo
connect equals Mongo connect and I'll also have exports get db which equals get db, like this.
So now I'm exporting two methods, one for connecting and then storing the connection to the database
and therefore, this will keep on running and I have one method where I return access to that connected
database if it exists and mongodb behind the scenes
will even manage this very elegantly with something called connection pooling where mongodb will
make sure it provides sufficient connections for multiple simultaneous interactions with the database,
so this is really a good pattern we should follow.
Now with that changed, we still can connect,
one thing I need to adjust though is in the app.js file where I do connect,
I'll not get declined anymore because we don't return it in the callback anymore,
so now we just know we are connected
but there is nothing else we can do.
But one thing I will be able to do is in product.js where I create my product model, there
I don't just can connect the connection now but I can import get db and that of course is very useful
because that means I do import this by accessing get db here because this means that I now can
call this function to get access to my database and therefore I can use it to well interact with the
database.
Now let's use that database connection starting in the next lecture.